In this paper, the authors compare the behavior of idealized test-case results for a terrain-following vertical coordinate and a cut-cell coordinate, where both grid structures are configured within the same non hydrostatic finite-volume model. The 2-D test cases considered are tracer advection within a fixed wind field, a resting atmosphere  simulation with terrain, and a mountain wave simulation following Schar et al. (2002). The  results in testing this model with terrain-following coordinates for the resting atmosphere and mountain wave cases have already been well documented by Weller and Shahrokhi (2014). The application of this model in the cut-cell configuration appears to be the new and interesting advancement, but I feel further description and testing of this cut-cell implementation is needed to demonstrate that it is a viable alternative to terrain following coordinates.

Specific comments 

The tracer advection test is not really a test of the dynamic core with terrain-following or cut-cell coordinates per se. Rather, it is a test of the accuracy of advection in a fixed wind field that is either parallel to the coordinate surfaces (zero covariant normal component of wind) or non-parallel with a varying covariant component. Schar's (2002) original test case clearly showed that the advection numerics are more accurate as the cross-coordinate flow is reduced. The authors' results for uniform flow reproduce this behavior. Specifying a wind field that is everywhere parallel to the terrain-following coordinate surfaces again just confirms this behavior, with the terrain-following configuration (now having zero covariant flow) being more accurate. I don't see where much new has been learned from this test.

Verifying that the cut-cell implementation produces much smaller perturbations than the terrain-following version is a relevant sanity check. As the authors' point out, defining variables in the centers of uncut cells essentially removes the perturbations to machine roundoff. Thus the small vertical variations along a coordinate surface in the present implementation should (and do) produce much smaller perturbations than in the terrain-following version (which, except for a minor change in the implicit formulation, has already been documented in Weller and Shahrokhi (2014)). However, this is not a challenging test case for a cut-cell coordinate model.

The mountain wave test case represents a realistic flow that can challenge the numerics of the cut-cell implementation. These challenges are known to arise, for example, when the terrain cuts through horizontal coordinate surfaces and when cells are present that have a very small volume. In the test case shown, with a vertical grid spacing of 300 m and a maximum terrain height of 250 m, the terrain does not reach the first grid level, so the cut-cell numerics are not fundamentally different from those in the terrain-following formulation and should (and do) produce similar results. The potential temperature anomalies at low levels in the lee of the mountain do suggest, however, that there is already some distortion caused by the cut-cell numerics. The authors attribute these inaccuracies to presence of the Lorenz computational mode. As evidence, they refer to a "zig-zag" structure in the vertical potential temperature profile in figure 5, which is not very apparent to me. It's also quite possible that the slightly warmer air at level 1 and cooler air at levels 2 and 3 are produced in the vicinity of the cut cells above the terrain and swept downstream. In any event, the terrain-following version also uses Lorenz staggering and does not exhibit this anomalous behavior. 

As mentioned above, I believe this work would have stronger scientific merit if it were refocused, with more emphasis on the construction and discriminative testing of the cut-cell numerics, and less emphasis on cases that provide little challenge for these numerics. To begin, it would be helpful to expand the description of the grid construction presently given on lines 127-137. A number of questions immediately come to  mind, for example: How are the BTF grid surfaces actually used to modify the cut-cell grid. Why do grid points need to be moved horizontally, and where are the cell centers used for the numerics actually located. What are the most problematic cells that might arise with this technique, and is there anything that limits the minimum cell size? Perhaps illustrating the cut-cell grid structures for several types of terrain situations would be helpful. In testing the cut-cell numerics, the mountain wave case provides a realistic flow with known solutions. If its desired to stay with the same terrain height, then evaluating the sensitivity of results to the vertical grid size would be informative. Setting the nominal dz to 200, 250, and 300 m would span a range of grid configurations relative to the terrain, from nonintersecting for dz=300m, to just intersecting the terrain crest for dz=250 m, to more fully intersecting the terrain for dz=200m. Setting dz=125 m could also be interesting as it would presumably correspond to the same relative grid cells as shown it figure 1c. One could also consider a higher terrain (say 500 m) with similar relative grid spacings. I believe such tests could be quite illuminating in evaluating the viability of this interesting cut-cell implementation.